Migration Guide from v1 to v2 (#53)
louislam/uptime-kuma-wiki: Migration-From-v1-To-v2.md

# Migration from v1 to v2

## Before You Start

- Stop your Uptime Kuma and:
   - Backup your `data` directory.
   - Make sure you have a backup of your `data` directory again.
   - Make sure you have a backup of your `data` directory again again.
- The migration process could take some time to complete, depending on the size of your database.
   - Do not interrupt the migration process.
   - FYI: My Uptime Kuma had 20 monitors and 90 days of data, and it took around 7 minutes to migrate.
- Beta version is not stable and may contain bugs, especially for the first beta release.

## Breaking Changes

- The `:duration` of these endpoints accepts `24`, `24h`, `30d`, `1y` only
  - <kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/ping/:duration
  - <kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/uptime/:duration
- Drop support for legacy browsers
- The deprecated backup feature is completely removed now

### Docker only
- Dropped support for Alpine base docker image (But you still can migrate to the v2)

> - If your host are using Debian / Raspbian Buster, you should not upgrade. Due to the bug of libseccomp2, it will be running into a startup problem.

Reviewer: > Due to the bug of libseccomp2

Can we link to said bug, so people know what to exspect specifically?

# Migration from v1 to v2

## Before You Start

- Stop your Uptime Kuma and:
   - Backup your `data` directory.
   - Make sure you have a backup of your `data` directory again.
   - Make sure you have a backup of your `data` directory again again.
- The migration process could take some time to complete, depending on the size of your database.
   - You should be able to view the logs of the migration process in the console.
   - Do not interrupt the migration process.
   - FYI: My Uptime Kuma had 20 monitors and 90 days of data, and it took around 7 minutes to migrate.
- Beta version is not stable and may contain bugs, especially for the first beta release.

## Breaking Changes

> - The `:duration` of these endpoints accepts `24`, `24h`, `30d`, `1y` only
>   - <kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/ping/:duration
>   - <kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/uptime/:duration
> - Dropped support for legacy browsers
> - The deprecated backup feature is completely removed now

Reviewer: I went through the PRs and have added a few other breaking changes

```suggestion
- The `:duration` of these endpoints accepts `24`, `24h`, `30d`, `1y` only
  - `<kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/ping/:duration`
  - `<kuma-url>/api/badge/:monitorID/uptime/:duration`
- Dropped support for legacy browsers
- The deprecated [backup](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma/pull/3892) and [CachableLookup](https://github.com/louislam/uptime-kuma/issues/3762) features are completely removed now
- Default retires for **NEW**ly created monitors are now `0` instead of `1` to prevent users being confused
- `Email (SMTP)` switched templating for subjects/bodys from a custom-regex to [LiquidJS](https://liquidjs.com/).
  LiquidJS **does discriminate between case-ness** of variables and **ignores all non-matching variables**.
  These are the supported variables: `name`, `msg`, `status`, `heartbeatJSON`, `monitorJSON`, `hostnameOrUrl`
```
